Now that we saw how to throw an exception and we saw how to throw around time and normal exception there's
an option even to create custom exceptions.
So how do we throw a custom exception for example in this scenario before we would ideally want to throw
an exception saying currencies do not match exception.
So how do I do that.
So the way you can create some exception in the way you create a custom exception is in two ways.
Either you can extend exception then you're creating check the exception or the other option.
You would see a little below is to extend the runtime exception.
Then you are creating the unchecked exception here.
If you see I'm creating a check current is not major exception extending exception so this is the check
the exception.
So what happens when I'm throwing a check the exception then the method which is throwing that check
the exception has to declare that I'm throwing occurrences do not match exception.
So I have to mandate really declare that I'm throwing an exception and also the calling methods should
either handle it or should throw it out.
So either men have the option to set rules.
Current is not baje exception or it can handle that and kind of printed to these factories or ideally
I should be using some lager or something of that kind.
The other option we have to just create a custom exception is to extend one exception.
The thing about runtime exception is the fact that we are now creating uncheck the exception and when
we create an unchecked exception we don't really need to handle it.
So if nothing if you see the code then you don't need to really define that it is trying to make characters
do not match the exception and even the main method does not need to handle it me go in and check the
exception.
So if so it's basically we are saying that the calling method does not mandate really need to handle
it.
But if Maine wants to go ahead and try and handle it it can do that.
I mean Maine always have has the option of doing a try catch around this and catching this exception
but it is not mandatory.
Let's now move on to a few code examples.
What is the output of program below.
So Elmont rather not an amount and catching an exception and occurrences do not match the exception.
The answer is this would result in a compilation error.
The order of the exception should be from specific to generic So the first exceptions in the first catches
should be all specific and the later ones should be more generic.
So here if you look at it currently is not magic ception is a specific exception.
Exception is generally every exception.
So Ideally this should be below the catch for currencies do not match exception.
The next question is how do you handle multiple exception types with same exception handling block.
If I want to handle I-You exception and Estulin exception the same way.
How do I do that.
So this was not really possible in earlier versions of Java in the oceans of Jabo what we used to do
is be used to extract it to a method and call the method from catch blocks Nuff with Java 7 and beyond.
It's posible So the way we do that is using a try catch with multiple exception indexes.
Are you exception or obscure the exception to IO exception or skill exception.
This block would handle it.
So this block would handle the logic for that.
This is also described is also a recent entry into Java with Java SRN what it enables us to do is we'll
keep it typically right.
Try the opening of the stores and then indefinably close to it.
So it's kind of logic which we keep repeating everywhere.
So jawab came up with this thing called Try with the resources so inside the right I'm putting the resource
which I would want to hand which I would want to try catch to handle.
So what that will do is cry and creating the resource here.
If an exception is thrown the close connection method on this is automatically called The way this is
done is by using in the fiscal or plausible.
So anycast which I would want to use it in that try with the thought the buffer reader for example here
implement an interface called auto Clozaril.
So what happens is if an exception is thrown then Jawan knows that there's a close method which is defined
on this.
So giallo would directly invoke be not close to close the connection or to close the buffered reader
in this particular instance.
So this is great with the resources that some of these private sources helps us in writing simpler code
because I don't need to have a Finally and call the closed in there and have lines before to open the
details and things like that.
And David try with resources it's really implemented is by making classes which we want to use and try
with resources to extend or interface called Arto plausible and they also implement the clueless method
and they define what needs to be closed the close method would contain the logic.
If there is an exception order is not an exception.
How do you close down the buffer.
Um no.
We looked at a lot of things related to exception handling.
What are the exceptionally handling best practices.
If you look at some of the methods that we created earlier because of the space constraints we were
not really falling all the exception handling good practices.
Some of the places we were hiding the exceptions we were not throwing them out or we were not really
logging them completely.
So yeah here are a list of best practices that you would need to always follow in your real world projects.
So the first one is never the exceptions that's sin.
So hiding exceptions is a big sin because if you're hiding exceptions then if something goes wrong then
nobody knows what is going wrong.
You have to definitely log the exception or stored somewhere where you can look at and find out what
the exception was thrown.
The second thing is do not do that to a flow control exception handling is just in case of an exception
do not use exception handling to control flow in any program exception handling.
It's not a free thing.
I mean it definitely has a lot of significant performance impact.
Also when you write code for exception handling always think about the user and this happened.
So think OK if this exception happens what does the user want to see.
So what what can you do about it.
What information can I give it to the user of the application.
The second person you always need to think about when or where you are handling exceptions is the support.
What information does the support that would need to be able to handle this exception.
Let's say this exception occurs in production.
What information do I need for me to be able to easily identify the root cause of this exception.
I can identify the scenario under which this exception is occurring.
So think about that and make sure that you're giving enough information that would help the user as
well as the support or put the information that user needs will be different from that of the super
super.
Right.
A user will not be able to understand anything about Diest daiquiris or anything all that he cares about
is high level.
So what can who can help him with resolving this error.
Upper level Apple is the one who would really be concerned about the details.
Also there are security things you don't want to show the exception trace to the user because there
might be some security information which is in there which you don't want to be issued to the user.
Also think about the calling method.
So this is when you try and make the decision whether you want to create a checked exception or unchecked
exception.
So I think the calling method do something about this exception.
I mean can it handle the exception and do something good about it if it if it cannot do anything about
it then it's better to create an exception.
If you look at being Look it chooses to make most of the exceptions most of the JTB exceptions as unchecked
exceptions because there isn't nothing you'd be able to do about a JEDEC exception if the exception
is thrown then all that we can do is throw a sample message to the user saying OK some was it can happen
and then you'd need the support Dolapo to go and look at what the cause of the exception is.
There is no way of calling that that will be able to see the exception and take a preventive action.
So in those kind of situations it's better to use an unchecked exception then check the exception.
So I always think about whether you want to create a checked exception unchecked exception where they
wanted the calling method not that you are throwing an exception in the calling method.
Do something about that exception and these kind of things.
And the most important best practice is have global exception handling.
If you have multiple layers Let's have a viable or a business a day earlier and a lot of things like
this.
If they delay is having an exception don't have logic to handle that exception in they don't have and
business layer and Webley.
You don't need to have it everywhere because the web is the part which starts out with the request.
You can have a global exception handling a deep web level and if there is any exception in the chain
then the web level can handle it.
And your problem is to the user.
I mean this is of course except for the scenarios where there's a business logic which is failing and
you want to write some business logic to handle that exception or counter that exception in that kind
of scenario.
Then you can read Business Law.
I mean exception handling logic in this space it.
But in all other kind of scenarios where all that I want to do is show a generic message the user don't
have your exception handling code pleasant all through the cord had just some global exception handling
mechanism to handle that and leave the rest of the code free of exception handling.
OK.
There you go.
That's a lot of discussion about exception handling.
We started with try catch finally we moved into the hierarchy of exception related classes.
We looked at how to create custom exceptions and now we were discussing about the exception handling
best practices.
So that's a lot of ground that we covered in this specific in the specifics section.
If you look at the workspace there are two examples exception handling example one and exception handling
example.
Do you have a lot of code in here which explains how you'd want to handle exceptions and how the exception
handling hierarchy and things like that.
I would really recommend you to do this as an exercise just good this piece of code and try and understand
everything that is happening in these two classes because it would give you a clear idea of everything
that is related to exception handling.
So good luck and I'll see you in the next with you.